Important Questions on Azure Cloud

> Visuwesh QA Questions

Why do we need resource group?
What is the purpose of Virtual Network?
What is Private and Public IP Address?
How do you diffrentiate Private and Public IP?
How many types of VMs can we create in Azure in terms of operating system?
What is Availability Zone?
What does Image Represent?
How can we subnet 10.0.0.0/16?
Purpose of availability Set?
what is Bastion Host / Service?
Port number of RDP and how do you connect through azure console?
why do we need subnet?
can we use customise image in the image place?
use cases of network peering?
if i have three networks is it possible to do network peering?
what is inbound and outbound rules?
what are the series w.r.t sizes in azure ex: b1 series, dv4 series?
what is scaling in VM?
what is command to connect to a VM?
purpose of NSG?
what is the help of capture in VM?
is it possible to start the VM by the created image? > YES!
what is a disk?
what is NIC?
purpose of RDP?
how to upgrade a VM w/o having a data disturbance?
how can you automate start and stop operation of a VM?
how many port numbers we can restrict?
how can i log in to VM w/o private key and password?
suppose we have web app which uses B1 family, client has to use B2 family w/o data loss or disturbance is it possible?
what is fault domain & update domain?
what are the options you get towards your left side while creating VM?
what is Vnet and Subnet?
when do we use NSG?
what is availability set?
what is D.DOS attack how can we prevent it?
what is address space?
how can i secure my VM?
what is NIC?
where we use Publiv IP and NSG?
what is service principle? what is its importance?
where will we use service principle concept in Azure cloud?
what is 2 tier and 3 tier architecture?
use cases of Public IP and Private IP?
How many ways we can troubleshoot our VM?
what is private endpoint and service endpoint?
how can i do bastian and backup of my VM?
diff b/w network peering and Subnet?
how can i update a vm from one size to another w/o disturbing data?
what is hot tier container?
what is storage a/c service?
purpose of table storage?
what are the scenarios where we can't do network peering?
Even after enabling port of 8080, I'm unable to access the port so how to troubleshoot this?
where you will asign the private subnet in azure portal?
what is redundency?


> Manoj QA Qauestions


what is Azure?
list the Examples of IAAS PAAS SAAS?
what are service modules?
what is Virtual Machine?
What is Vnet?
Is vnet is a isolation network or not?
diff b/w traditional VM and Azure VM
diff b/w azure and azure devops?
diff types of disks in azure cloud?
what is virtual machine scale set?
what is cloud module?
what is cloud computing?
which cloud module is it when 50 vm in local and 50 vm in azure data centers connected to each other? 
which service module will help to deploy the application to azure services?
what are shared responsibilities in azure?
what are availability zones and regions?
what is lsblk? where and when you use it?
what is azure resource manager? what is ARM?
diff b/w server and VM?
what is variable length subnet masking?
what is IP address?
can we create a nested resource groups like one inside the other?
what is subnet masking?
how to secure our VM?
list the competitors of azure?
diff b/w AWS and Azure?
why you opted or prefer Azure?
in which module Virtual Machine falls in?
what is VPN?
what is resource groups?
why we need reource group in Azure?
How can we manage our resource groups?
what is Azure AD? / What is Azure Active Directory?
Why we need Azure active directory?
what is address sapce?
what is IP range?
where we can find the hardware of virtual machines that we created in cloud??
what is network?
expalin the BTS (Behind The Scenes) when you create a VM in Azure cloud / any cloud platform?
As a DevOps engineer why we need Azure?
what is capital expenditure and service expenditure?

how to get ext4 UUID in bash?  >  syntax: sudo blkid -s UUID -o value /dev/sdc (for sdc)
