1. what is the internal and external commands with examples 
2. why we need sudo for external commands.
3  what is touch command
4. how to delete directory and all its content.
5. how to search the pattern in 
6. what is the use of VIM
7. what are the commands you used?
8. how wq works and how q works in vi editor.
9. what options you comee across in VI like insert, command.
10. can you explain the pwd command
11. what is shebang
12. what is the path you need to enter while running script
13. what is ls -lr
14. what is the difference between append shell scripting
15. what are the differnet types of shell scripting you came across
16. what is the $ sign in shell screpting
17. what is the difference in vi and vim
18. what is local and root directory in linux
19. what is the difference in mv and cd command.
20. what is the differenc in rm and rm -r
21. what does grep command do, grep -v
22. what does mv command do?
23. what does grep command do?
24. What does pwd do?
25. what does man do?
26. how to create multiple directory?
27. how to delete directly and how to delete directory with content.
28. how to create multiple files at a time
29. how will you create temparory file
30. how to read the file with out opening.
31. what is difference in cp and mv.
32. have you come across head and tile and what does it do?
33. list the words and characters inside the file.
34. what is wget?
35. what does find and sed command do ?
36. what is tar command does?
37. what are the file permission you came across?
38. can you tell about the ls flags.
39. what rsync
40. what does cp command do
41. what does cat command do?
42. By default head print how many lines.
43. how to print last 2 lines.
44. what grep -e do ?
45. what are the options you use in vi editor?
46. if you want to search the pattern in editor.
47. difference between internal and external command?
48. if i want to give permission to execut permission to user. how will you give that?
49. what is the use of chmod?
50. what is the use of ls.
51. how will ou knwo in which directory you are in.
52. how will you sort the files and directory in assending order.
53. what cat command do.
54. what echo command do.
56. how to append text from one file to other file.
57. what is the difference between overwrite and append.
58. what is the difference in head and tail.
59. what does grep command do ?
60. what is the difference in wq and wq! in vi.
61. waht is teh dd do inside vi editior?
62. if i wnat to delete 5 lines from begin of the file?
63. what less command do.
64. what does chmod command do
65. can you tell the flags of ls
66. what is the difference in cp and mv
67. what is the difference in internal and external commands
68. what is the difference in overright and append.
69. difference in > and >> ?
70. what does grep command do ?
71. differencein vi and vim.
72. how to move cursur to biginning of next word.
73. what does $ do in vi.
74. how to move cursor to end of current line.
75. what does pwd do ?
76. how to change directory.
77. how to come to parent directory in 3 highirechy.
78. how to come to home directory.
79. ls flags.
80. what is the difference between overwriten and append.
81. have you come across rsunc?
82. difference and rmdir, rm -rf.
83. how to crate a temparory file.
84. difference in head and tail.
85. differenc in cat and less?
86. how to see contents of the fiel inside editor.
87. hwo to add content in vi editor.
88. how to delete 3 lined from starte of vi editor?
89. what is the dw does?
90. what does top command do ?
91. how will you list only directory.
92. disk usage command.
93. different in ls -l and ls -lr
94. what does grep command do.
95. what does chmod command do?
96. sort command.
97. differenc in cat and less.
98. how to rename file.
99. how to print default 10 lines.
100. wc command.
101. how to crate temp file.
102. how to creat multiple files in one go.
103. inside vi editor, i want to quit file with our saving.
104. delete character where cursor is placed.
105. how undo in vi editior.
106. how to delete lat 5 lines in vi editor.
107. how to replace 1 character inside vi editor.
108. how to search pattern in vi editior.
109. command you used in few days.
110. flavours of linux.
111. types of shell scripting.
112. sed command.
113. delete n lined from current line
114. how to delete character in backward direction
115. differenc in cat and open.
116. differenc in rm and rm -f.
117. you opene	 3 direction you to come out all the directory.
118. what does esc do in vi editor.
119. what dw do?
120. vi editing commands
121. differenc in :q and :wq
122. how to create number of files.
123. differenc in cp and mv.
124. how to rename file.
125. wht does cp -r do?
126. ls options.
127. history command.
128. what does touch command do ?
129. remove content in file.
130. overwrite content of files:
131. what is the differenc in copy and move.
132. how to rename file?
133. what is differenc in cat and less.
134. how to display top 7 lines and bottom 7 lines in file.
135. what does man command do?
136. inside vi editor, what does esc does?
137. how to delete 4 words in vi editor.
138. how to search pattern in vi editor
139. how to replace pattern in vi editor?
140. how to lsit number of lines.
141. how to remove line number
142. how to replace character in vi editor
143. disk usage and disk command
144. how to rename file.




how to change ownershiop of directory and file
how to search exact pattern in closed file
how to delete 2 words in any line in vi editor
how to rename file
how to list only directory using ls? which flag we use
how to overwrite character in vi editor
difference in append and overwrite
difference in cat and less
how to display words and character in file
hwo to search multiple pattern using grep
how to add contents at the end of line
how to search pattern using one character using grep
hwo to delete 1st and 5th line in vi editor
what is pwd and cd
ls -lh
how to serach pattern in vi editor
how to undo the changes in vi editor
in vi editor, how do we make changes 
how to delete 2 and 10 line in vi editor
how to copy line inside vi editor
how to search multiple pattern using grep command
what do grep -l command do 
find command
how to replace character in vi editor
ls -lh ->>>>>>>>>>>>>.....The -lh option is used to display the file size in a human-readable format,  size of the file in bytes, kilobytes, megabytes, or gigabytes, depending on its size
how to delete 1 st and 3rd line.
how to search pattern in multiple directory
how to search multiple pattern
esc a: what it does.
how to run shell command and return to comman mode in vi editor.
how to delete last 10 lines inside vi editor with out change the line
grep -i (case insensitive words)
how to delete current cursor(cursor is at the moddle of the line) positon to end of the line --->>>>>>>>>>>>. esc d$
how to delete current line  cursor(cursor is at the moddle of the line) positon to start of the line
how to copy and past the line in vi editor
cp \
how to print user information ->>>>>>>>>>. who am i 
hwo to display number of words and character in a file name
inside vi editor if you i want to run shell command and return to vi editor.
esc : R does in vi editor





system ctl command
service commands
how to download only the packages from internet
how to find a file with a pattern with py in a directory. with .ty or .txt comamdn
how do you recursealy search a pattern in a directory.
how do display line number in a open and closed file
how to you find file with write permissions
how do you count words in a file
what does apt get do?
how to clear the search history.
how to install linux
what is linux




how to reduce the memory of the virtual machine.
one guy is not able to access your file, how to resolve this issue.
you have one important file of a project, it takes huge memory of in system. how to redue the memory. ------------> what is the purpose of tar command?
How will you check the available disk space.  -> Disk free, what h in df -h
how to list all running process	in linux
you have log file, you want to extract all lines, containes "error"
how can we display network address
what is different in PS and top
how to kill the process, how to find the application id and how do you kill the process
what is teh use of top command.
you have 5 server, i want to communicate between 1st and 5th vm, how to check connectivity is working or not.
your website is slow to load, how to check network latency, how to check that?
what is purpose of grep command.
purpose of netstat?
how to find a hidden file.
we have windoes servers, why we need linux?

Kamlesh
how to create hidden file.
I want to transfer 5 files from one file to another, is it possible?, what are the 2 commaands, which one is the best.
what is omi process.

ashok s 
what is kernel, what is operating system.
what are i node, why are they importent
I want to create user, is it possible in linux
how to check how many users are in linux consol.
what is teh permisison 742.
how  to map user to perticular group 
different in cat and touch
purpose of telnet,
what is TCP, why we need tcp an why we need udp

avinash kumar
are you aware of trunkate command
how to tar the file, can you tell along with the flags.
you have text file, you want to replace linux with git, with out opening file.
are you aware of SSH key.
syntax of scp command.

chaitra
how to identify empty line with out opening file.
how to find empty line using awk command.
i want to kill process, how to kill the process. what is -9 denote. what kill -1 do?


chandru
how to search and replace case insensitive with out opening file.
I want to get url from out side. how to get application from outside is it possible?
difference in soft link and hard link?
how to define which one is soft link an which one is hard link.
I want to Pid of java processor?


kiran
i want to delite 5th line in vi editor? is it possible?
difference in wq and wq!
how to check version of os?
how to find empty file?
difference in sed and sed - i?
I want to serach .log and .tex fiel and i want to delete file.


manjunath
how to create a password
i want to switch from one user to other user?
i want to assign new user to existing group?
how to delete user
how to delete work using vi editor.
what is wc

basavaraj
what are the modes available in vi editor?
who to search pattern in vi in reverser direction?
i want to set line number in vi editor?
what is wc -L will denote and wc -l denote.
search or find file which end with .log?
what are the directory present in root directory?


Praveen
how to check status of specific port on remote server?
dicribe purpose of echo and cat command?
I want to change the group of perticular file.
what is internal and what is external command.


vinod L
how to change the file name
you are using tar command, what is zcvf in it? what is the purpose of gz ?
I want to delete 5 line without opening file.
purpose of netstat commaand. what are the flags for netstat command.
what is the benefit of scp and rsync command.


Nayeem

find file between 50 to 100 days
whaat difference in cho and chmod.
how to check know os detials
how to get find the help of 
how to check path of current directory.
what is apt.




Manjunath


Kavita
what is virsion controlled system and distrubuted controlled system.
difference in git and git Hub


Kavita
why we need git.



ashok
what is source code management
purpose of head and tail command
version of Git


veeresh
what is more and what is less command
i have one processer, i want to kill processer
purpose of ps command
benefits of git

thippeswamy
purpose of netstat command, and flags
how to compress my file.    -> tar -zcvf , tar -xvg
explain sed and awk command.
purpose of awk command
how to check version of os
purpose of git hub


basavaraj
find modified files - find . -typef -mtime -10
top and ps command
my vm is slow, how to rectify -->
how to diffecreantiate soft link or hardlink.

chandan
i want to add user to existing group
i want to delete file.
how to create a directory
i want to know the list of the users i added


chandru
change the group
change teh group an owner
i have log files i wnat to delete all teh log files.
purpose of ping command

kamlash
what are the files and directory present in root directory
delete empty line using sed command
forcefully close vi editor
purpose of git.
purpose of rsync command


kiran
purpose of awk command
difference in git and github
who and who am i command difference
purpose of history command


sai nikhil
what is internal and external command
hwo to find which is internal or external command --> type command. cell bulluting,
check longest linke 
hwo to create hidden file
purpose of uname command
how to check version of os = lsb_release


Nayem
how to copy line from vi editor
how to delete word
how to to to end of the line
what is distrubuted controlled system


Vinod:
truncate command
i want to search empty lines usig sed command
hwo to download external files from url --> wget command.


Praveen
search multiple pattern
how to search pattern in reverser dirction in vi editor
how to search and replac globally in vi editor
architecture of Git
what is working directory

sudeep:
purpose of scp command
I want to transfer copy from remot host to local host.
purpose o awk command
what is git



What is fs in awk , 
What is nf
What is awk command.
How to delete range of lines using sed command.
How do you connect to remot server
How to connect local repository to remote repository.
What is daemon in linux. --> interview question
Types of environment variable.
What is wget command.
How to find the executable files
Detailed process to connecting local repository to remote repository 
In terminal how to get any package
How to download a file from web in terminal? ---> wget, command.
Curl command.
What is head and tail command
How to display 10 th to 100 line on terminal.
How to copy r-srever to r-server, give comman
Why netstat is used
How do you replace 3th occurrence particular file 
How to check check the disc usage.
What is git
How to add multiple user to groups
